design/registration/registration-sync-job.md, before:

Design - Sync Job



**Background**

The job will run at the background of the Registration client application to sync some of the configuration from
server to client and also should push the packet and other detail captured at the client machine to server.


The **target users** are

-   System
-   Registration officer
-   Registration Supervisor

The key **requirements** are

-   Required Job should be configured to run at the specific interval based on the requirement.
-   Job should be running in the background of the application.
-   If the running job updates the configuration of the application in local machine 
    then display alert to the UI and stop capturing the data.
-   Should provide an option in the UI to trigger the sync jobs.
-   Should provide an option in the UI to trigger individual job.
-   Always the job should send the delta data to the server.
-   Always the job should pull the delta data from the server based on the last success update date and time.
-   Different state of the job should be captured.

**List of Jobs**
-   Packet Status Reader
-   Sync Master data from server
-   Sync platform configuration from server
-   Policy sync from server.

The key **non-functional requirements** are
-   The background process should not consume too much of memory and stop the UI application.
-    

**Solution**
	

Class and Sequence Diagram:
![Sync job sequence diagram](_images/registration-sync-batch-jobs.png)

Commit message:

batch sync updated
Former-commit-id: a4bf60f93d2a3add44ce58662cf8bc97da98e61d
Former-commit-id: b279a1efc35dee8853ad6e515153a8018ea38b54
Former-commit-id: 4bd0b348595eab4b264a0798658b329ff2e568b2

design/registration/registration-sync-job.md, after:

Design - Sync Job



**Background**

The job will run at the background of the Registration client application to sync some of the configuration from
server to client and also should push the packet and other detail captured at the client machine to server.


The **target users** are

-   System
-   Registration officer
-   Registration Supervisor

The key **requirements** are

-   Required Job should be configured to run at the specific interval based on the requirement.
-   Job should be running in the background of the application.
-   If the running job updates the configuration of the application in local machine 
    then display alert to the UI and stop capturing the data.
-   Should provide an option in the UI to trigger the sync jobs.
-   Should provide an option in the UI to trigger individual job.
-   Always the job should send the delta data to the server.
-   Always the job should pull the delta data from the server based on the last success update date and time.
-   Different state of the job should be captured.
-   The job should be started once the user has been logged into the application.

**List of Jobs**
-   Packet Status Reader.
-   Pre-registration packet sync from server.
-   Sync Master data from server.
-   Sync User detail from server.
-   Sync User machine mapping from client to server.
-   Sync platform configuration from server.
-   Policy sync from server.
-   Sync Audit data to server.
-   Clean up Jobs:
    - Registration Packet cleanup.
    - Pre-Registration Packet cleanup.
    - Audit log sync with the server.

The key **non-functional requirements** are
-   The background process should not consume too much of memory and stop the UI application.
-   During config and data sync with the server the application should not be used.
-   Each job status to be recorded into the respective job transaction table.
-   Any abnormal behavior while executing the job, the same to be notified to the user and stop the application and log the exception detail.
-   Background threads shouldn't run too many threads. 

**Solution**
	

Class and Sequence Diagram: [Batch Jobs]
![Sync job sequence diagram](_images/registration-sync-batch-jobs.png)

Design of **[Packet Status Reader](registration-packetstatusreader.md)**

Design of **[Master Data Sync](registration-master-data-Sync.md)**

Design of **[Configuration Sync]**

Design of **[Policy Sync]**
